# Lean Experiment Types

--- TAKEN FROM http://www.movestheneedle.com/blog/enterprise-lean-startup-experiment-examples/ ---

There are many techniques to consider when designing an effective lean startup
experiment, so we decided to capture a few of our favorites below.
Mix-and-match each example to create a powerful experimental learning vehicle
for your next concept. Even better, see if you can recognize these lean startup
experiment examples next time you’re using your favorite application or
website. Good luck!

Remember, the most effective experiments measure real behavior, while also
delivering real value to the customer.

Concierge MVP Manually perform tasks related to delivering the value of your
product or service. Eventually you will automate and optimize the process you
perform manually, but its likely you will move faster by simply performing
tasks manually.

Example: P-2-P Payments platform (name is confidential). The founding team
created a peer-to-peer payment workflow via a web “responsive” application,
where user can request payments from friend and family. This workflow was
presented to the user as as functional website. In reality, the founding team
manually processed all requests by hand, meaning they manually sent email
notifications, tracked payment requests and captured billing information.

Mechanical Turk (or Wizard of Oz) For offerings where a complex backend is
required, such as databases, algorithms or complex engineering, consider
simulating this backend with real people or existing apps. It’s likely you can
mimic the “engine” behind the scenes. Even if this takes longer for the
customer to receive an answer, you will avoid wasting precious time building
features the customer does not want. This is especially good for support
centers.

Example: See it in action at a call center – Why don’t you Just tell me which
movie

Imposter Judo (Boomerang) If a similar ideas to yours already exist in market,
you can use these as a quick and simple way to gather feedback. You might ask
customers to sign-up and give you feedback on a competitors website, or
repackage an existing product.  This is especially effective when selling
physical products, or showing early static mockups.

Example: In the early days of Zappos, the founders simply purchased shoes as
needed from local shoe retailers, instead of stocking their own inventory. This
allowed Zappos to test their idea fast and cheap, before investing ion their
own inventory.

Analog/Physical Sell a physical version of the product, even if your final
product will be digital. This is especially effective for information or
data-based products such as customer lists or how-to guides.

Example: When selling a digital information product the experiment team
gathered early versions of this data “by hand”, then produced a printed report
for the test customers. This printed report provided real value, and was used
to gather feedback. Eventually, the team created a digital version of this
report.

Dry-Wallet In order to test whether your customers will actually purchase your
products, and for how much, you can deploy a simulated “purchase now”
experience. This may take the form of a simple e-commerce check-out, or perhaps
a letter of intent request. Once the user begins the purchase process, you can
simply respond with a “out of stock” message, or other elegant way to proceed
such as simply not billing the customer at all.

Example: You will encounter this strategy the team designed a website for
selling a subscription based physical product. To gauge interest, the team
quickly created a web based purchase form simulating the check-out process, so
the customer believed they were purchasing the product. However, no billing
occurred since the form did not connect to payment processing…

High Hurdle Refers to any experiment where you actually make your experience
more difficult to use, in an effort to gauge real interest. The higher the
hurdle, the more validity you can attribute to your results.

Example: Design a sign-up process with multiple, difficult to answer questions,
which adds friction to the sign-up process. This way you only capture the most
passionate customers for your early testing. Over time, you can reduce the
friction in order to improve your funnel.

Video Trailers Record a “real life” scenario using your product, where you edit
the video to create the illusion your product is real. Then, use the video as
part of your landing page or marketing message. This is especially useful for
products where the behavior can be easily simulated (see other experiment
types)
